# 3C. Teaching Aid

**Due**: April 10th, 2024 (by 5pm)

**Weight**: 25% of final grade

**Medium**: Any

**Stream**: Game Pedagogy

**Length:** (50 min lecture/ \~2000 words)

So, you're interested in working more on teaching and games? You have a choice of creating a teaching aid building on your past work. You could:&#x20;

1. record a 50 minute lecture with presentations slides
2. write a pedagogical justification for using games

#### Option 3C-1.  Lecture

You will put together a sample lecture based on your previously submitted syllabus which integrates games with your field/period of interest. Your lecture must be substantially based on both primary and secondary sources that you identify yourself.

\
This assignment has three components:

1. Your draft lecture should should include some form of **citation of the relevant sources** that you are drawing on. It should be of an appropriate length to reflect a standard 50-minute lecture; you may find that you need to edit your lecture for length once you record it.
2. You will provide the professor with a copy of your digital **slides** (e.g. powerpoint etc.) for this lecture.
3. You will provide **a recording of you giving the lecture**. You should NOT read the lecture word-for-word; give your presentation as you would in a class. This can take many forms - a VoiceOver recorded for a powerpoint presentation, a recording of you lecturing in a lecture hall etc. You do not need to provide a script of your lecture to the professor.&#x20;

**Option 3C-2.  Pedagogical Justification**

Having completed an annotated bibliography and syllabus, you might find that you want to write up in more detail a justification for incorporating game-based learning into the classroom, museum or public history site. This research can develop one of your conclusions from your literature review in the annotated bibliography but cannot reproduce work completed there.&#x20;

Your assignment should contain:

* **title and abstract** (\~250 words)
* a clearly-argued **justification** (\~2000 words), drawing on current research, why incorporating the history of games or game-based learning into the secondary or post-secondary curriculum is feasible. It could be:
  1. a focussed site-specific argument, e.g. the Canadian Museum of History or the Bytown Museum should develop games like A and B to engage the public to teach X and Y; or
  2. a focussed topic-specific argument, e.g. the teaching of WWI in grade eleven would be improved by a new pedagogical rpg about Canadians during wartime; or
  3. a general curricular argument, e.g.  Carleton's history department should incorporate a new stream of game based learning.

#### Option 3c-3. Detailed Activity Instructions

If you chose to create a EMCP schedule/syllabus, you may also create and justify a detailed set of activity instructions (to be decided upon in consultation with the professor). You could create, for example, a campus scavenger hunt  or other educational game and explain its pedagogical means and goals.&#x20;
