---
description: In progress/
---

# 3. Starting with SmartNotes\*

### Overview

> "It is much easier to get started if the next step is as feasible as “writing a note,” “collect what is interesting in this paper” or “turning this series of notes into a paragraph” than if we decide to spend the next days with a vague and ill-defined task like “keep working on that overdue paper.”
>
> Sönke Ahrens, _How to smart notes_, chp. 13, sect. 5
>
>

In this class, we will practice reading academic works and creating effective and useful notes from them. Building up your own smart note system requires that students work up foundational building blocks (references to works read) and notes that build off of them (literature and permanent notes). For history, texts form the foundational building blocks of our ideas - reading written history and then recording our thoughts on evidence (no matter if evidence takes the form of texts, images, material culture etc.)

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Transitory Notes" %}
Often when we have an idea, we try to jot it down somewhere and then hope we find it again later. But often we don't ... we just lose the note and then lose the idea we had!

The smart notes process asks people to get things into a note when you have a good thought, and then come back to it later. To have lots of random notes that you process and make sense of. They key to the smart note process is to have ideas, record them and then make sense of them, by adding them to your vault. Eventually, they get incorporated into _idea notes_ or you discard them.&#x20;
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Reference Notes" %}
You make _reference notes_, because I want students to practice writing up a proper citation for works we are reading. Proper citation is in part about 1) showing you can follow scholarly norms, in part because 2) sloppy citations make you look unprofessional and 3) (most importantly!) future-you will thank past-you if properly done references are a click away and you can easily track down an origin to your ideas. &#x20;
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Literature Notes" %}
You write _literature notes_ to show how you have thought about the reading. Literature-notes  (and importing thoughts/annotations from hypothes.is) allow you to have a record of passages you found most helpful/ interesting and record _why_ you thought so. This means that these passages (quotations w/annotations) are then available when you want to come back to that topic - in this class or in others (believe me, historians come back to ideas like, "What is history" over and over again...).
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Permanent Notes" %}
You write _permanent_ or _idea notes_ to gather together similar thoughts on a central topic. You might want to have a note on "what is a game", which gets added to as you read more about history games. _Idea notes_ (aka permanent notes) are meant to exist as nodes for your thinking and start to show intellectual collisions or agreements by different authors. These sorts of notes are very useful in establishing historiographical trends in scholarship (and the geneaology of ideas).&#x20;
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Getting Obsidian Set Up

