# 8. In-class Exercise: Material culture

> The material study of games, as the study of objects in general, belongs to both social and cultural history. On the social side, it offers evidence, among other things, on the materials a society had access to and the relevant usage, as well as the society’s technological level, divisions between those who could afford the ownership of games and those who could not, and sometimes on social borders and gender-related evidence. On the cultural side, the material dimension of games reveals a lot on objects and materials related to pastimes, aesthetic values and priorities, as well on habits related to everyday life or special occasions, as for example feasts and family or community ceremonies.&#x20;
>
> As primary sources, games and gaming places may open up material windows to the past that can- not be opened by written sources alone. Along with the relevant written and visual sources, traces of the material culture of games form a triangle of evidence which is of utmost importance for the historian who tries to analyse past societies through the games they played. This triangle may offer complementary answers to questions related to the development of technology, ways of production and consumption, commercial interactions and globalization, cultural meetings and influences, aesthetic principles, as well as other relevant issues.                                                                &#x20;
>
> &#x20;                                        Spanos, _Games of History_, 32, 34.

### Goals:&#x20;

* to practice describing games as artefacts of material culture
* to work together to think through the implications of the evidence in class together

### Requirements:&#x20;

* access to the internet
* by the start of class on Wednesday, students will need to have completed the preparatory stages of this exercise.
* analyze one of three game pieces/sets
  * [https://www.britishmuseum.org/collection/object/H\_1831-1101-84](https://www.britishmuseum.org/collection/object/H\_1831-1101-84)&#x20;
  * [https://art.thewalters.org/detail/34963/game-piece-with-enthroned-figure/](https://art.thewalters.org/detail/34963/game-piece-with-enthroned-figure/)
  * [https://art.thewalters.org/detail/29773/game-piece-with-figures-in-a-castle/](https://art.thewalters.org/detail/29773/game-piece-with-figures-in-a-castle/)

### Produce:&#x20;

A game note for the specific piece you are looking at, by the start of Wednesday's class.&#x20;

### Preparatory Stages:

1. Take a look at one of the game pieces.&#x20;
2. As Spanos notes, "game sets and game equipment do not speak for themselves". Therefore, we need to understand game objects in light of the rules and ideas of the game from other sources. This is also similar to art historical research, where imagery usually needs additional sources to understand the meaning.&#x20;
3. Spanos distinguishes that objects can be used in different ways by historians:
   1. **history **_**from**_** things:** using objects to prpvide evidence for interpreting the past. The historian focuses on the object and the methodology builds from there.&#x20;
   2. **history **_**of**_** things:** objects are studied as a historical event: design, production, ownership, function and use as well as the relationship to context. The historian chooses a methodology (e.g. history of sexuality) and examines objects in light of it. The historian focuses on the object itself and might study its design, production, ownership, function and use, as well as its relationship to its context, be it social, cultural, economic, political or of any other type. It can be understood as the historical analysis of the relationships between objects, people and their representation.
   3. **history **_**and**_** things**: juxtaposing object to a narrative on an entity or period. It offers the capacity to unlock more creative and freer ways of conveying ideas about the past that are not necessarily mediated by written language in books and articles produced by professional historians.
4. Gather basic information about the object and complete a [Game Object Note ](https://cmailcarletonca.sharepoint.com/:t:/r/sites/MEMS2001977/Shared%20Documents/General/fysm1405A-obsidian-shared/\_simple-templates/game-object-template.md?csf=1\&web=1\&e=TwxL4W)for the chess piece you are examining. The note asks you to describe the following types of information. Upload your note to your student work folder by November 2nd, 10am.&#x20;
5. In class, we will discuss everyone's findings and we will try to push our knowledge further, analyzing the visual and archaeological evidence as a class.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
The [Game Object Note ](https://cmailcarletonca.sharepoint.com/:t:/r/sites/MEMS2001977/Shared%20Documents/General/fysm1405A-obsidian-shared/\_simple-templates/game-object-template.md?csf=1\&web=1\&e=TwxL4W)is a new simple template I have added to the shared FYSM1405A vault on Teams. You should copy it into your \_simple-templates folder in your personal vault to use it.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

#### Object Information:

**Reference Number**

Reference number and location {the city, repository where the artefact is located and the reference/accession number. If the object is in a private collection, call it "Personal Collection of X" where X is the name of the owner}

**Description of the Object**

{A good description of the studied object is the first step, particularly when the object is unique and/or handmade. Even for industrially produced games, a thorough description might reveal differences from other known examples, which were probably produced elsewhere. Usually much of this information can be found in museum catalogues (increasingly available online, but not always). Descriptions of appearance needs to be in your own words. }

**Appearance**

{General description, including decoration} {In many places and periods, game sets and equipment were not only meant as objects of gameplay; particularly in the higher strata of the society, they were also elements of the social apparatus of the household and as such they were media of social communication. Furthermore, the ornament of even industrially produced game equipment, as for example the back side of playing cards, reveals aesthetic principles and art elements of the period of the production}

**Identification of the Game**

{If the game is modern/ mass produced, include a link to its game-reference note If the game is ancient/ handmade, provide an explanation of how the piece shows the game to which it belongs

* note how the piece relates to the appearance of the game as a whole}

**Function**

{how does the piece serve players in gameplay}

**Material**

{What is it made out of?}

**Quality of production**

{mass produced, handmade, roughly made, fine work}

**Weight and other measurements**

{any details about size}

**Price**

{the price of the game at original time of sale or more recent auction records should also be noted, if known, eventually in comparison to prices of other goods in the same period and place, as an indication of whether the game was affordable or a luxury product}

**Provenance**

{Identifying the place where the object was produced; this can be confusing, modern games will be often published in one place but have components produced elsewhere}

**Material History**

{the ownership history of the studied game set, equipment or piece. If necessary, juxtapose this material study to the history of the game as a game. The history of game sets and equipment should include their display in museums and exhibitions, if even only first and last exhibition at an institution. If it is on permanent display, note this and tell what room at the repository it is located}

**Material Context**

{The material study of games opens a window to advertisement practices and principles, as well as the economic, social and cultural values that were related to the promotion of material goods. In studying a game as a commodity, the historian might be supported by the fields of economy, communication studies and psychology of taste and consumption}



**Significance**

{What does the game piece tell us, or what is its significance?}

#### Identification of the Game

{If the game is modern/ mass produced, include a link to its game-reference note If the game is ancient/ handmade, provide an explanation of how the piece shows the game to which it belongs}

#### Links

{Put any links to separate notes you have teased out here}

#### Tags

{Add any tags here}

###

